# Guwahati, Assam, Introduction,
Guwahati is the largest city of the Indian state of Assam, and also the largest metropolis in northeastern India. Dispur, the capital of Assam, is in the circuit city region located within Guwahati and is the seat of the Government of Assam. Its airport is the 12th busiest in India, the Lokpriya Gopinath Bordoloi International Airport. A major riverine port city along with hills, and one of the fastest growing cities in India, Guwahati is situated on the south bank of the Brahmaputra. The city is known as the "Gateway to North East India".

The ancient cities of Pragjyotishpura and Durjaya (North Guwahati) were the capitals of the ancient state of Kamarupa. Many ancient Hindu temples like the Kamakhya Temple, Ugratara Temple, Basistha Temple, Doul Govinda Temple, Umananda Temple, Navagraha Temple, Sukreswar Temple, Rudreswar Temple, Manikarneswar Devalaya, Aswaklanta Temple, Dirgheshwari Temple, Lankeshwar Temple, Bhubaneswari Temple, Shree Ganesh Mandir, Shree Panchayatana Temple, Noonmati, and the like, are situated in the city, giving it the title of "The City of Temples". The noted Madan Kamdev is situated 30 kilometres (19 miles) from Guwahati.

Guwahati lies between the banks of the Brahmaputra River and the foothills of the Shillong plateau, with LGB International Airport to the west and the town of Narengi to the east. The North Guwahati area, to the northern bank of the Brahmaputra, is being gradually incorporated into the city limits. The Guwahati Municipal Corporation, the city's local government, administers an area of 216 square kilometres (83 sq mi),. At the same time, the Guwahati Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) is the planning and development body of Greater Guwahati Metropolitan Area. Guwahati is the largest city in Northeast India.

The Guwahati region hosts diverse wildlife including rare animals such as Asian elephants, pythons, tigers, rhinoceros, gaurs, primate species, and endangered birds.


# Etymology, Origin
Guwahati derives its name from the Assamese word "Guwa" derived from the Sanskrit word Guvaka, meaning areca nut and its plant and "Hati" (Assamese: হাটী) meaning rows, the rows of areca nut trees.


# History, Origin
Ancient history
The 10th-12th century Kalika Purana mention that Kamrup was inhabited by strong, cruel Kirata people. As per the legends constructed in the Yogini Tantra, the tank Dighalipukhuri located in the heart of the city was dug by King Bhagadatta of Kamrup on the occasion of the wedding of his daughter Bhanumati with Duryodhan. Located within Guwahati is the Shakti temple of Goddess Kamakhya in Nilachal hill (an important seat of Tantric and Vajrayana Buddhism), the ancient and unique astrological temple Navagraha in Chitrachal Hill, and archaeological remains in Basistha and other archaeological locations of mythological importance.

The Ambari excavations trace the period of the city of Guwahati between the 2nd century BCE and the 1st century CE, in the Shunga-Kushana period of Indian history. Descriptions by Xuanzang (Hiuen Tsang) reveal that during the reign of the Varman king Bhaskaravarman (7th century CE), the city stretched for about 30 li (15 km or 9.3 mi). Archaeological evidence by excavations in Ambari, and excavated brick walls and houses discovered during construction of the present Cotton College's auditorium suggest the city was of economic and strategic importance until the 9th–11th century CE.

Medieval history
Main article: Ahom–Mughal conflicts
Koch King Parikshit had his capital at Pragjyotishpur near the Aswatirtha during the conflicts with Mughals. It came under Mughal occupation between (1633–59, 1662–69, 1679–81), their vestige was completely removed after the Battle of Itakhuli.

Guwahati was the headquarters of the Borphukan, Ahom governor of Lower Assam till 1824.The Borphukan's residence was in the present Fancy Bazaar area and his council-hall, called Dopdar, was about 300 yards (270 m) to the west of the Bharalu stream.The Majindar Baruah, the personal secretary of the Borphukan, had his residence in the present-day deputy commissioner's residence. During Ahom period Guwahati was fortified strongly and connected with the country with a number of roads. The Dighalipukhuri was used as a boatyard during this period. During the time of splendor, since the reign of Gadadhar Singha; the Ahom rulers paid their attention to building several temples in various religious sites at Guwahati.

Colonial history
Main article: Colonial Assam
On the cession of Assam to the British in 1826 it was made the seat of the British administration of Assam, and so continued till 1874, when the headquarters were removed to Shillong in the Khasi hills.

Modern history
This section needs expansion with: late colonial history and transition to independence. You can help by adding to it. (December 2022)
The Gauhati High Court (formerly known as the High Court of Assam) was promulgated on 1 March 1948 by the then Governor General of India, Lord Mountbatten, in accordance with the Government of India Act 1935. It became effective on 5 April 1948 and was initially established for the Province of Assam. R.F. Lodge was the inaugural Chief Justice of the Gauhati High Court, taking office on 5 April 1948.

The Saraighat Bridge, notable for its role in connecting Northeast India with the rest of the country, was constructed between 1959 and 1962 by the Hindustan Construction Company at a cost of approximately ₹ 106 million at the time. It was completed in September 1962, and the first engine crossed it on 23 September 1962.

In 1972, due to separation of Meghalaya from Assam, the capital of Assam was moved to Dispur, a neighbourhood in Guwahati from the erstwhile capital of Shillong.


# Geography, Location
The smallest inhabited riverine island in the world, Peacock Island, on the Brahmaputra river
The Brahmaputra river flows to the north of the metropolis. The city is bordered on the south by the foothills of the Shillong plateau and to the east by the Amchang Wildlife Sanctuary. The Bharalu River, a tributary of the Brahmaputra, flows right through the heart of the city. To the south-west of the city lies Dipor Bil, a permanent freshwater lake with no prominent inflows apart from monsoon run-off from the hills to the south of the lake. The lake drains into the Brahmaputra, 5 km (3.1 mi) to the north, and acts as a natural stormwater reservoir for the city. There are also multiple hills within the city limits.

# Urban morphology, About City, Areas
Guwahati's urban morphology
Guwahati's 'urban form' radiates from a central core with growth corridors radiating and extending towards the south, east, and west. In the past few decades, southern Guwahati areas such as Ganeshguri, Beltola, Hatigaon, Six Mile, and Panjabari began forming a southern sub-centre surrounding the capital complex at Dispur. The core area consists of the old city with Pan Bazaar, Paltan Bazaar, Fancy Bazaar and Uzan Bazaar, with each area facilitating unique urban activities.
Among the city corridors, the most important is the corridor formed along the Guwahati-Shillong (GS) Road towards the south (almost 15 km [9.3 mi] from the city-centre). The GS Road corridor is an important commercial area with retail, wholesale and commercial offices developed along the main road; it is also a densely built residential area in the inner parts. The capital complex of Assam at Dispur is situated in this corridor. This corridor has facilitated the growth of a southern city sub-centre at Ganeshguri, along with other residential areas to the south developed during the past few decades.
The corridor extending towards the west (around 30 km [19 mi] from the city centre) contains a rail-road linking not only Guwahati but also other parts of the northeastern region east of Guwahati to western Assam and the rest of India. The corridor links residential and historically important areas such as Nilachal Hill (Kamakhya), Pandu, and Maligaon (headquarters of Northeast Frontier Railways) before it separates into two – one towards North Guwahati via the Saraighat Bridge and the other continuing west towards LGB International Airport via Gauhati University (Jalukbari). There are also many river ports/jetties along this corridor.
The third major corridor extends towards the east (around 15 km [9.3 mi] from the city-centre) linking Noonmati (Guwahati Refinery) and Narengi, and has facilitated residential growth along with it. Highway NH-37, which encircles the city's southern parts and links the southern corridor in Noumile to the western corridor in Jalukbari is currently supporting rapid development. Similarly, the VIP Road linking Zoo Road with the eastern corridor and recently completed Hengerabari-Narengi Road are also supporting massive residential development to the east.
Guwahati is one among 98 Indian cities proposed to become Smart Cities under a project embarked on by Ministry of Urban Development, Government of India.


# Climate, Weather
Guwahati has a humid subtropical climate, falling just short of a tropical savanna climate.
Guwahati has been ranked 36th best “National Clean Air City” under (Category 2 3-10L Population cities) in India.
Usually November to January are mildly cold, March to April are Windy, May to October is hot with occassional rains from June to September.

# Infrastructure. Buildings
City view from Sarania Hill
The city has a comparatively high quality of life. A 2006 survey ranked Guwahati 17th among all the large and medium-sized Indian cities. The city provides competitive residential and working environments with beautiful landscapes, pleasant climate, modern shopping areas, modern apartments, and bungalows, and considerably developed social infrastructure. A centrally funded four-lane, ambitious East-West Corridor will pass through Guwahati and connect all the state capitals of Northeast India. Completion of the project will boost the vital upliftment of the whole region.

The city still needs attention to improve its infrastructure. Funding from the Asian Development Bank is providing assistance to improve Guwahati's transportation infrastructure along with a substantial amount from Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM) for its development.


# Administration and governance
Dispur, the capital of Assam, lies in Guwahati. The passing of the North Eastern (Reorganization Areas) Act in 1971 by the Indian Parliament accorded Meghalaya the status of a full-fledged state. After the creation of Meghalaya as a separate state, Shillong continued to be the joint capital of both Assam and Meghalaya. However, in 1972, the Government of Assam decided to shift the capital to Dispur. Accordingly, the first sitting of the Budget Session of the Assam Legislative Assembly was held at Dispur on 16 March 1973. Dispur houses the Secretariat of Assam Government, the Assam Assembly House, the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) Regional Office, the North Eastern Development Finance Corporation Ltd (NEDFi) House and the Guwahati Tea Auction Centre (GTAC).

Guwahati Municipal Corporation is the local body responsible for governing, developing and managing the city. It is divided into 60 municipal wards. Guwahati Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) is an agency responsible for planning and development of the greater Guwahati Metropolitan Area and for revising the Guwahati Master Plan and Building Bylaws to cover an area of 3,214 square kilometres (1,241 sq mi) by 2025.

Guwahati consists of four assembly constituencies: Jalukbari, Dispur, Gauhati East and Gauhati West, all of which are part of Gauhati (Lok Sabha constituency).

# Police
Guwahati is the headquarters of Assam Police.
The city is under the Police Commissionerate of Guwahati headed by the Commissioner of Police, Guwahati. It is divided into three districts: East Police District, Central Police District, and West Police District, each headed by a Deputy Commissioner of Police. Each police district consists of officers, not below the rank of Assistant Commissioner of Police, functioning as executive magistrates within a said metropolitan area.

# Judiciary
The Gauhati High Court
Guwahati is the principal seat of the Gauhati High Court. It acts as the High Court of Assam and also of Nagaland, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh with their outlying benches of Kohima, Aizawl and Itanagar, respectively. Gauhati High Court came in effect from 5 April 1948. It initially had its sittings at Shillong but was shifted to Gauhati from 14 August 1948.
Guwahati also houses the Court of the District and Sessions Judge, Kamrup established in 1920. It is a lower court of the district judiciary having territorial jurisdiction over the greater Guwahati area only.


# Problems
Increase in population
In recent years, Guwahati has experienced rapid population growth due to migration for education and employment opportunities. This population increase has led to undesirable expansion of the city and has resulted in various collateral problems, such as the rise in the number of slums. It is projected that the population of Guwahati will reach 1.5 million by 2035, up from an estimated 1.1 million in 2020.

Inflation
One of the economic problems that the citizens of Guwahati have to put up with is the hike in prices of many essentials, chiefly vegetables, poultry, and fish. The prices of these commodities keep escalating at an inordinate rate because of which the buyers find it difficult to buy these items. Vegetables are transported into Assam from West Bengal, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Maharashtra and Meghalaya and the truckers en route have to pay considerable amount of money as tax at various check posts. It is one of the causes of rise in prices of vegetables in the markets of Guwahati. The prices of locally available vegetables and fruits undergo large markup because of transportation expenses grounds, besides intra-State check posts taxes. In addition to these, the wholesale dealers, as well as the retail sellers, augment the prices of the commodities according to their own desires.

The price of poultry, mainly chicken, that reaches the city markets from places like Chaygaon and Barpeta have been soaring rapidly because of similar factors. There has been steep rise in the price of fish as well, the prominent varieties of which being Rohu ("Rou"), Catla ("Bahu"), Walking catfish ("Magur") and Monopterus ("Kuchia") among many others.

The COVID-19 pandemic further exacerbated inflation, causing food prices to rise.

Flooding
According to experts, urban flooding in Guwahati in the near future is expected to worsen to the point where residents of certain areas may be forced to relocate. Since the beginning of the 21st century, the alteration of drainage channels and wetlands due to rapid urbanization has exacerbated the problem of flooding.

Professor Abani Kumar Bhagawati of Gauhati University stated that since before there were sufficient wetlands to absorb rainwater and channels to carry excess water to the Brahmaputra, the city did not experience floods. However, human interference has disrupted the natural topography, leading to the current situation where "just half an hour of rain" can cause flooding in the city. Encroachment and concretization, which reduce open areas for natural water absorption, are the primary causes of floods according to Bhagawati.

Pollution
Guwahati was ranked the second most polluted city in the world in a 2023 report published by IQAir, behind Begusarai and ahead of Delhi, reflecting India's status as the country with the third highest level of pollution after Bangladesh and Pakistan.

# Demographics, People Living
Guwahati is one of the fastest-growing cities in India. Guwahati has a population of 962,334 as per the 2011 census. Population of Guwahati in 2021 is estimated to be 11 lakhs (approx). It is estimated that Guwahati metro will house 2.8 million residents by 2025.

Literacy and sex ratio
The percentage of the child population (0-14) in Guwahati was 9.40% in 2011. The average literacy rate was stated to be 91.47% with male literacy at 94.24% and female literacy at 88.50%. The sex ratio was recorded to be 933 females per 1000 males and child sex ratio to be 940 girls per 1000 boys.


Languages
Languages spoken in Guwahati (2011)
  Assamese (57.80%)
  Bengali (20.40%)
  Hindi (12.29%)
  Nepali (1.92%)
  Boro (1.69%)
  Manipuri (0.91%)
  Bhojpuri (0.90%)
  Others (4.09%)
According to the 2011 census, there were around 962,334 people living in Guwahati city, of which around 57.80% spoke Assamese, 20.40% Bengali, 12.29% Hindi, 1.92% Nepali, 1.69% Boro, 0.91% Manipuri and 0.90% Bhojpuri as their first language.


# Education, School, Colleges, Universities

IIT Guwahati
Guwahati is the central educational hub of Northeast India. Among the esteemed institutions is the Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati (IIT), an autonomous institute dedicated in the field of technical studies in India. Cotton University, erstwhile Cotton College is yet another century-old institution in the fields of Science and Arts.

Guwahati has numerous educational institutes and colleges such as:
Gauhati University,
Cotton University,
Srimanta Sankaradeva University of Health Sciences,
Assam Science and Technology University,
S. B. Deorah College,
Dakshin Kamrup College,
Dakshin Kamrup Girls' College,
Gauhati Commerce College,
Arya Vidyapeeth College (Autonomous),
K.C. Das Commerce College
Handique Girls College,
Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati,
Indian Institute of Information Technology, Guwahati,
B. Borooah College,
Dispur College,
Regional Dental College, Guwahati, look
National Law University and Judicial Academy,
Gauhati Medical College and Hospital,
Government Ayurvedic College, Guwahati,
Assam Engineering College,
Assam Institute of Management,
Assam Don Bosco University,
Royal Global University,
Lakshmibai National Institute of Physical Education N. E. Regional Centre,
Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Guwahati Campus,
Krishna Kanta Handiqui State Open University,
National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, Guwahati and
Institute of Advanced Study in Science and Technology.

There are various private schools too like:
Don Bosco School,
Delhi Public School,
Sanskriti the Gurukul,
Holy Child School,
St. Mary's English High School,
YWCA English High School and
Faculty Higher Secondary School.


# Economy, Money
Pandu, located on the banks of the Brahmaputra at the western part of the city, is an ancient urban area that acted as the chief military base for the Ahoms against external invasions. Due to extensive fortification ('Gorh') surrounding Pandu, it acts as a natural river harbor and is formally called Gar-Pandu. Pandu port falls under Dhubri-Sadiya National Waterway-2 and is an important terminal and transit point for goods and cargo as well as passenger and tourist vessels. Construction of both low-level and high-level jetty of fixed terminal, capable of handling container vessels, has been completed and has further enhanced revenue generation for the city.

Multi Level Car Parking Facility operated by Assam State Transport Corporation (ASTC) situated at Paltanbazar, Guwahati
The manufacturing sector in Guwahati contributes a substantial share to the economy of the city. Petroleum manufacturing is an important economic activity in the city. The Guwahati Refinery is the most important manufacturing industry in the city. Located at Noonmati, the refinery was set up by the Indian Oil Corporation Limited as the first public sector refinery of India as well as the refinery of Indian Oil since 1962. It was built with an initial crude processing capacity of 0.75 million tonnes per year at the time of its commission which was gradually increased to 1.0 million tonnes per year. It produces various products and supplies them to the other northeast states and also beyond to Siliguri through the Guwahati-Siliguri pipeline. The various products produced by the refinery include Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG), Kerosene Oil, Turbine Fuel (aviation use), Motor Spirit, High-Speed Motor Diesel, Light Diesel Oil, and Raw Petroleum Coke. There is also an LPG bottling plant in the city.

Tea manufacturing and processing is another important activity of Guwahati. Assam is one of the highest tea-producing areas in the world, contributing 80% of India's export and 55% of the country's total tea production. So high is the production of tea in Assam that it is the biggest industry in the state. The headquarters of the Assam Branch Indian Tea Association (ABITA) is located at Guwahati. The Guwahati Tea Auction Centre (GTAC), located adjacent to the capital complex at Dispur, is the world's largest CTC tea auction centre and the second largest in terms of total tea auctioned. The inaugural sale took place on 25 September 1970 and the first lot of tea was auctioned at the price of ₹ 42.50 which, during those days, was a significant achievement. In the month of August 2019, a kilogram of Maijan Orthodox Golden tea sold for a record-setting price of ₹ 70,501 at the Guwahati Tea Auction Centre.

Many centralised, private and international banks have set up their branches in the city with the Reserve Bank of India having one of its own at Pan Bazaar.


# Transport, Vehicles, Moving around, Reaching, Travel
Air
Guwahati is served by the Lokpriya Gopinath Bordoloi International Airport, in Borjhar, about 20 kilometres (12 mi) west from the heart of the city. With all major domestic and international airlines flying into Guwahati, it is the tenth busiest airport in India in total passenger traffic. Daily and weekly flights are available to Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Visakhapatnam, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Jaipur, Kochi, Bangkok, Paro, Kathmandu etc. A new airport terminal is under construction which is expected to be completed by 2025.

Rail
Guwahati Railway Station
The city of Guwahati and the northeastern region falls under the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) Zone of the Indian Railways, the headquarters of which is in Maligaon, near Nilachal Hills, in the northwest of the city. The Guwahati railway station, located in Paltan Bazaar area of Guwahati, is the busiest railway station in the city. It lies along the Barauni-Guwahati Line and Guwahati–Lumding section, categorised as an A-1 railway station under Lumding railway division.

There are four more railway stations in the city – the Kamakhya Junction for passenger and freight services, the New Guwahati railway station (near Noonmati) for only freight services, Narangi railway station and Azara railway station. There are regular trains connecting Guwahati to and from other major cities of the country. Rajdhani Express, Poorvottar Sampark Kranti Express, Brahmaputra Mail, Kamrup Express, Northeast Express, Saraighat Express and Vande Bharat are some significant trains running to and from Guwahati. The train with the longest route in India, Vivek Express, which runs from Dibrugarh in Upper Assam to Kanyakumari in the southern tip of India passes through Guwahati.

Road
Nilachal Flyover, located in the Maligaon area of Guwahati is one of the longest flyover of Assam
The length of surfaced roads within the city is 218 km (135 mi). National Highway 27 connects Guwahati with the states West Bengal, Bihar and rest of India. This highway connects Guwahati with Silchar in Barak Valley Assam and further connecting the city to the states of Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura. National Highway 17 from Sevoke in West Bengal terminates in Jalukbari and connects Guwahati with the major cities of Dhubri and Cooch Behar. National Highway 15 and its several secondary roads runs through both the banks of River Brahmaputra and connects the Guwahati with the cities of Tezpur, Jorhat, Dibrugarh in Upper Assam and the states of Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland.

Public transportation is well developed in the city. Buses are the major means of public transport in Guwahati. The state-owned Assam State Urban Transport Corporation, a subsidiary of Assam State Transport Corporation (ASTC) and private operators provide the city bus services within the city. ASTC also operates the Volvo air-conditioned bus services within the city as well as to the LGBI airport. The Rupnath Brahma Inter State Bus Terminus (ISBT), located at Betkuchi on NH-37, is the most significant terminal cum transit point with regular day and night bus services from state owned ASTC and private operators plying between Guwahati and other destinations in Assam and Northeast India. The areas of Adabari and Paltan Bazaar also act as nodal points in providing bus services to towns and cities in Assam and adjoining states.

There are no metro rails or monorails in Guwahati.

Uber, Ola and Rapido services are available. The city is well connected by City buses and the fares are budget friendly. However, the buses tend to move slower and stop long at bus stoppages. Also, for short commutes, Battery operated Rickshaws and Cycle Rickshaws are available. There is a cable car that connects the main city to North Guwahati.

Guwahati has also seen a rise in the usage of cycling as a mode of transport and as per some unofficial estimates, there was almost a 50% increase in the number of people who took up cycling in the wake of COVID-19.[90] The city has an active cycling community and is amongst the few Indian cities that has a Bicycle Mayor and a Junior Bicycle Mayor.

Water
The Inland Water Transport Department is headquartered at Pandu port in Guwahati. The waterways transportation services in Guwahati are used for transporting bulk goods and cargo, and for movement of passenger and tourist vessels. Ferry services are available for transportation of people from different ports along the Brahmaputra to Pandu port.


# Sports
Nehru Stadium, Guwahati
Guwahati features the multi-purpose Nehru Stadium which hosts mostly football and cricket located in the R.G. Baruah Sports Complex, one of the oldest in the city.[92] It comprises the Kanaklata Indoor Stadium (for badminton), swimming pool and tennis courts. The North-East Frontier Railway Stadium of Maligaon, the Sports Authority of India (SAI) complex of Paltan Bazaar and the Judges Field are other prominent sporting venues of the city.

The sporting infrastructures especially constructed for the 33rd National Games in 2007 include Indira Gandhi Athletic Stadium —the main stadium at Sarusajai Sports Complex, Dr. Zakir Hussain Aquatic Complex, and the Karmabir Nabin Chandra Bordoloi A.C. Indoor Stadium. Other new sports venues include Maulana Md. Tayabullah Hockey Stadium at Bhetapara, Deshbhakta Tarun Ram Phookan Indoor Stadium at Ulubari, Rajiv Gandhi Indoor Stadium at Amingaon, Chachal Tennis Complex and the Tepesia Sports Complex. The renovated sports complexes include Ganesh Mandir Indoor Stadium at Khanapara, Rudra Singha Sports Complex at Dispur and Gauhati University Sports Stadium. The Indira Gandhi Athletic Stadium was also the main venue of the 2016 South Asian Games and the Himalayan Region Games in 2017.

Guwahati is home to the professional football club of Indian Super League (ISL), NorthEast United FC. They play their home matches at the Indira Gandhi Athletic Stadium. It presents one of the finest football atmospheres in India. The stadium also hosted matches of the FIFA U-17 World Cup in 2017.

The international cricket venue Assam Cricket Association Stadium at Barsapara, is the home of Assam cricket team. It is the largest cricket stadium in Northeast India with seating capacity of 40,000 and 2nd largest in East India. It hosted an India vs Australia T20I match in 2017 in its international debut. The first ODI in the stadium was held in 2018 between India and West Indies.

Professional sports clubs based in the city 
NorthEast United FC	Football
Indian Super League	Indira Gandhi Athletic Stadium
Northeastern Warriors
Badminton
Premier Badminton League
Karmabir Nabin Chandra Bordoloi Indoor Stadium
Assam Titans Futsal Club
Futsal	North East Futsal League
Karmabir Nabin Chandra Bordoloi Indoor Stadium


# Media & telecommunications
Assamese daily newspapers published from the city are Dainik Agradoot, Asomiya Pratidin, Asomiya Khabar, Amar Asom, Dainik Janambhumi, Janasadharan, Niyomiya Barta, Dainik Asam, Dainandin Barta and Gana Adhikar. English dailies are The Assam Tribune, The Sentinel, The Telegraph, The Times of India and Eastern Chronicle. Eclectic Northeast Magazine is a leading Guwahati-based monthly Northeast magazine with an online version. G Plus is the only English weekly tabloid published from Guwahati.

The state-owned television broadcaster DD Assam provides free-to-air satellite television services. Guwahati-based 24-hour regional satellite news channels include News Live, DY 365, Pratidin Time, Prag News, Assam Talks and News18 Assam North East.

The Guwahati Radio Station of state-owned All India Radio was inaugurated on 1 July 1948 as Shillong-Guwahati Station. The Headquarter of the Shillong-Guwahati Station was shifted from Shillong to Guwahati in 1953.[99] It is a full-fledged Regional broadcasting station with three channels; the Guwahati A & B Channels are AM Channels, and the CBS Channel is an FM Channel. The other FM stations include 92.7 BIG FM, Radio Gup-Shup 94.3 FM, Red FM 93.5 and Radio Mirchi. Telecom services are BSNL, Airtel, Vodafone Idea and Jio.

# Temples, Worship, Holy places
Notable places of worship
Temples in Guwahati
Kamakhya Temple
Rudreswar Temple
Doul Govinda Temple
Ugratara Devalaya
Basistha Temple
Sukreswar Temple
Lankeshwar Temple
Dirgheshwari temple
Umananda Temple
Navagraha temples


# Notable people
Nabakanta Barua, poet and academician
Dipankar Bhattacharjee, Indian badminton player and Olympian
Barsha Rani Bishaya, Assamese film actor
Gaurav Bora. footballer
Ashmita Chaliha, Indian badminton player
Utpal Das, Assamese film actor
Somdev Devvarman, tennis player
Zubeen Garg, singer, songwriter, lyricist and actor
Shrinjan Rajkumar Gohain, Indian chess player
Arnab Goswami, journalist
Mamoni Raisom Goswami, novelist and academician
Bhupen Hazarika, singer
Reema Kagti, director and screenwriter
Durgabar Kayastha, medieval littérateur
Abu Nechim, cricketer
Nayyara Noor, singer
Papon, singer and composer
Riyan Parag, cricketer
Subam Rabha, football coach
Bhabendra Nath Saikia, novelist, short story writer and film director
Himanta Biswa Sarma, current Chief Minister of Assam
Jayanta Talukdar, Indian archer and Olympian
Shiva Thapa, boxer and Olympian


# Shopping, Market, Malls
Fancy Bazaar - Biggest hub of Guwahati. You can find everything from Silk to Electronics.
Ganeshguri - Big market. Mostly famous for clothes market.
Panbazar - Books shop, Silk sarees.
Paltanbazar - Clothes, general market. It is the centre of the city with the Guwahati Railway Station situated here.
Beltola Bazaar - Bi-weekly market which sits every Sunday and Thursday on the Beltola Road. It is a vegetables market, where you can get fresh produce.

Malls - City centre Mall is the biggest mall and located at Ganeshguri. Central Mall located at Christian Basti. Aurus Mall is at Dispur. NCS Square mall is at Adabari. Times Square Mall is on Zoo Road. Many outlets of Vishal Mega Marts and Reliance Retail.

# Hotels, Staying
Premium - Radission Blu, Vivanta, Greenwood Resort, Kiranshree
Budget - Various Homestays, AirBnBs, Lodges.

# Moving around
Cabs - Ola, Uber, Smarto Cabs
City Buses are available all over the city, which is budget friendly. However, it takes more time as they stop for longer durations at each stop.

# Eating, Dining
Various options are available - North Indian, South Indian, Street Foods, Vegetarian Hotels.


Guwahati isn't a difficult city. By that I mean it has got almost all the amenities a developed city needs (okay except the metro service), yet it's much less chaotic than the bigger cities.Rather it's quite an amazing place.

Having said that below are things you mostly should know before moving in here:

The best residential areas are Beltola, Six mile, Maligaon, Lachit Nagar, Panjabari etc. These places are well connected to the rest of the city and are also in the township area.
I am assuming you will be here for work so I would suggest staying somewhere near your work place would save you a great deal of time as increasing traffic is one of the major problems of the city.
City buses are the best form of transportation, though uber/olas are available but use the buses as they are pocket friendly and available almost at any hour.
Pg’s and hostels are in abundance in the aforementioned locations also some near the uzan-bazar, bhangagarh area. You may also go for shared rooms in flats that would cost you effectively lesser (depending upon your location though).
Guwahati has a collection of cool restaurants and cafes so make a point to try them all.Also try the traditional assamese thali which is a very healthy and pocket friendly option. Many food delivery services are available too.
For shopping hit fancy bazar, you will get everything of your need at less cost.
Weekends and evenings could be spent visiting dighali pukhuri, sitting by the Brahmaputra river near uzan-bazar ghat, or at the peak of Nilachal hills (the view of the entire city from there is mesmerizing).
Head to Shillong for a weekend/holiday which is just 80 kms from town. Cabs are available from paltan bazar for rs. 300–350.
Movie halls are many but Gold cinemas/Anuradha offers you good seats at cheap/reasonable prices, whereas for 3D movies consider Grand cine’s/ PVR/Cineplex.
Language isn't an issue here, because unlike the south, local people here understand and can also speak Hindi/English. Though it's for your benefit if you could learn a bit of the local language.
Finally, people here consider it a good way to start living in Guwahati only after visiting the historic and famous Kamakhya temple. It is believed that Guwahati belongs to her and Goddess Kamakhya will always keep you safe.



Guwahati, the gateway to Northeast India, is a vibrant city steeped in history and mythology, offering a unique blend of ancient traditions and modern life. For a first-time traveler, here's a comprehensive guide to make your visit enjoyable and hassle-free:

1. Understanding Guwahati:
Location: Situated in the state of Assam, on the banks of the mighty Brahmaputra River.
Significance: It's the largest city in Northeast India and a major commercial and transportation hub.
History: Known as Pragjyotishpura in ancient times, it has a rich history dating back to the Mahabharata era.
Culture: A melting pot of various ethnic groups and cultures, reflecting the diversity of Northeast India.

2. Getting There and Around:
By Air: Lokpriya Gopinath Bordoloi International Airport (GAU) is well-connected to major Indian cities.
By Train: Guwahati Railway Station is a major railway hub, with frequent trains from across the country.
By Road: National highways connect Guwahati to other parts of India, and regular bus services are available.
Local Transport:
Taxis and Auto-rickshaws: Widely available, but negotiate fares beforehand or insist on using the meter.
City Buses: An affordable option for getting around, but can be crowded.
App-based Cabs: Ola and Uber are available in Guwahati, offering convenient and reliable transportation.

3. Accommodation:
Guwahati offers a range of accommodation options to suit all budgets, from luxury hotels to budget guesthouses.
Areas like Paltan Bazaar, Uzan Bazaar, and GS Road are popular choices for their proximity to transportation and amenities.

4. Must-Visit Places:
Kamakhya Temple: An ancient Shakti Peetha, dedicated to Goddess Kamakhya, attracting devotees and tourists alike.
Umananda Temple: Located on Peacock Island in the Brahmaputra River, known for its scenic beauty and peaceful atmosphere.
Assam State Zoo cum Botanical Garden: Home to a diverse collection of flora and fauna, including the one-horned rhinoceros.
Shankardev Kalakshetra: A cultural centre showcasing the rich heritage of Assam through museums, art galleries, and open-air theaters.
Brahmaputra River Cruise: Enjoy a scenic cruise on the mighty Brahmaputra, offering breathtaking views of the city and surrounding landscapes.
Fancy Bazaar: A bustling market where you can find a variety of goods, from traditional Assamese handicrafts to modern apparel.
Assam State Museum: Explore the rich history and culture of Assam through its extensive collection of artifacts and exhibits.

5. Food and Drink:
Assamese cuisine is a must-try, known for its unique flavors and use of local ingredients.
Must-try dishes:
Khar: A traditional dish made with raw papaya, pulses, and meat or fish.
Masor Tenga: A sour fish curry cooked with tomatoes and outenga (elephant apple).
Xaak: A variety of leafy greens cooked with different spices.
Pitha: Traditional rice cakes, available in various forms.
Local beverages:
Tea: Assam is famous for its tea, and you can enjoy a cup of strong and flavorful Assam tea at local tea stalls.
Rice beer: A traditional alcoholic beverage made from fermented rice.

6. Shopping:
Fancy Bazaar: A shopper's paradise, offering a wide range of products at affordable prices.
Pan Bazaar: Known for its bookstores and traditional Assamese products.
Handicrafts: Look for traditional Assamese handicrafts like silk fabrics, bamboo and cane products, and tribal jewelry.

7. Important Tips for First-Time Travelers:
Respect local customs and traditions: Dress modestly when visiting religious sites.
Bargaining: It's common to bargain at local markets.
Language: Assamese is the official language, but Hindi and English are also widely understood.
Safety: Guwahati is generally safe for tourists, but it's always advisable to take necessary precautions.
Weather: Guwahati experiences a humid subtropical climate, with hot summers and mild winters.
Connectivity: Mobile networks are generally good in Guwahati.

8. Nearby Excursions:
Shillong: The capital of Meghalaya, known for its scenic beauty and waterfalls.
Kaziranga National Park: A UNESCO World Heritage Site, home to the endangered one-horned rhinoceros.
Manas National Park: Another UNESCO World Heritage Site, known for its diverse wildlife and scenic beauty.
With its rich history, vibrant culture, and natural beauty, Guwahati offers a unique and unforgettable travel experience. By keeping these tips in mind, first-time travelers can make the most of their visit to this fascinating city.



Guwahati, a city brimming with history, culture, and natural beauty, offers a plethora of attractions for tourists. Here's a breakdown of the must-visit spots:
Temples:
Kamakhya Temple: This is undoubtedly the most famous landmark in Guwahati. Perched atop the Nilachal Hill, it's one of the most revered Shakti Peethas in India, dedicated to Goddess Kamakhya, an incarnation of Durga. The temple's unique architecture and tantric significance draw devotees and tourists from all over the world. Be prepared for crowds, especially during the Ambubachi Mela.
Umananda Temple: Located on Peacock Island (Umananda Island) in the middle of the Brahmaputra River, this Shiva temple offers a serene escape. The boat ride to the island provides stunning views of the river and the city skyline.
Navagraha Temple: Dedicated to the nine celestial bodies (Navagrahas) of Hindu astrology, this temple is situated on the Chitrasal Hill. It's an important centre for astrological studies and attracts devotees seeking blessings for good fortune.
Basistha Temple: Nestled amidst lush greenery, this ancient temple is dedicated to Lord Shiva. The temple complex also features three streams, adding to its tranquil ambiance.
Museums and Cultural centres:

Assam State Museum: This museum offers a fascinating glimpse into the history and culture of Assam. Its exhibits showcase a rich collection of artifacts, including sculptures, ancient manuscripts, traditional costumes, and archaeological finds.
Srimanta Sankardev Kalakshetra: A cultural complex named after the revered Vaishnavite saint Srimanta Sankardeva, this centre showcases the rich heritage of Assam through museums, art galleries, traditional crafts displays, and open-air theaters. It's a great place to experience Assamese art, music, dance, and drama.
Brahmaputra Heritage Centre: Located on the banks of the Brahmaputra, this centre offers insights into the river's ecological and cultural significance. It features exhibits on the river's history, biodiversity, and the lives of the people who depend on it.
Natural Attractions and Recreation:

Assam State Zoo cum Botanical Garden: This zoo is home to a diverse collection of animals, including the iconic one-horned rhinoceros, tigers, leopards, and various bird species. The botanical garden within the complex showcases a variety of flora, making it a great place for nature lovers.
Dighalipukhuri: This historic tank in the heart of the city offers boating facilities and a pleasant environment for relaxation. It's a popular spot for locals and tourists alike to enjoy a leisurely stroll or a boat ride.
Brahmaputra River Cruise: A cruise on the mighty Brahmaputra is a must-do experience in Guwahati. It offers breathtaking views of the city skyline, the surrounding hills, and the river's vast expanse. You can choose from various cruise options, including sunset cruises and dinner cruises.
Deepor Beel: This wetland on the outskirts of Guwahati is a haven for birdwatchers and nature enthusiasts. It's home to a variety of migratory birds and offers opportunities for boating and wildlife spotting.
Markets and Shopping:

Fancy Bazaar: This bustling market is a shopper's paradise, offering a wide range of goods at affordable prices. You can find everything from clothing and accessories to electronics and household items here.
Pan Bazaar: Known for its bookstores, this market is a haven for book lovers. You can also find traditional Assamese products like silk fabrics and handicrafts here.
Other Notable Spots:

Guwahati Planetarium: This planetarium offers fascinating shows about the universe and astronomy, making it an educational and entertaining experience for all ages.
Nehru Park: A well-maintained park with lush greenery, children's play areas, and a musical fountain, making it a great place for a family outing.
Tips for Visiting:

Plan your itinerary: Guwahati has a lot to offer, so it's best to plan your itinerary in advance to make the most of your time.
Consider transportation: Local transportation options include taxis, auto-rickshaws, city buses, and app-based cabs.
Respect local customs: Dress modestly when visiting religious sites and be mindful of local traditions.
Bargaining: It's common to bargain at local markets.
By exploring these diverse attractions, you can experience the rich tapestry of Guwahati's history, culture, and natural beauty.


Guwahati's strategic location makes it an excellent base for exploring the surrounding region. Here are some fantastic one-day trip options:

1. Shillong (Meghalaya):
Distance: Approximately 100 km (3 hours by car)
What to expect: The "Scotland of the East," Shillong offers stunning landscapes, rolling hills, waterfalls, and a vibrant cultural scene.
Must-sees:
Umiam Lake (Barapani): A picturesque man-made lake with clear blue waters, perfect for boating and enjoying the scenery.
Ward's Lake: A beautiful artificial lake with a botanical garden, ideal for a leisurely stroll.
Don Bosco Centre for Indigenous Cultures: A museum showcasing the rich cultural heritage of Northeast India.
Elephant Falls: A cascading waterfall surrounded by lush greenery.
Shillong Peak: The highest point in Shillong, offering panoramic views of the city and surrounding hills.
Things to note: The road to Shillong can be winding, so be prepared for some curves. Start early to make the most of your day.

2. Umiam Lake (Barapani) (Meghalaya):
Distance: Approximately 80 km (2 hours by car)
What to expect: If you want a shorter trip focused on natural beauty, Umiam Lake is a great option.
Activities: Boating, kayaking, and simply enjoying the serene atmosphere.
Tips: You can combine this with a quick visit to a nearby viewpoint or a local market.

3. Chandubi Lake:
Distance: Approximately 64 km (2 hours by car)
What to expect: A natural lake surrounded by forests and tea gardens, offering a peaceful escape from the city.
Activities: Boating, fishing, and picnicking.
Highlights: The scenic beauty and the opportunity to experience rural Assamese life.

4. Pobitora Wildlife Sanctuary:
Distance: Approximately 45 km (1.5 hours by car)
What to expect: Known for its high concentration of Indian one-horned rhinoceros, Pobitora is a must-visit for wildlife enthusiasts.
Activities: Jeep safaris and elephant safaris offer excellent opportunities for wildlife viewing.
Tips: Book your safari in advance, especially during peak season.

5. Hajo:
Distance: Approximately 35 km (1 hour by car)
What to expect: A unique pilgrimage site where three religions – Hinduism, Buddhism, and Islam – converge.
Key attractions:
Hayagriva Madhava Temple: A Hindu temple dedicated to Lord Vishnu.
Hajo Powa Mecca: A Muslim pilgrimage site.
Significance: Showcases the religious harmony prevalent in the region.

6. Mayong:
Distance: Approximately 40 km (1.5 hours by car)
What to expect: Known as the "Land of Black Magic," Mayong has a mysterious history and folklore associated with witchcraft and magic.
Attractions: The Mayong Central Museum showcases artifacts related to the area's magical past.
Note: This trip might be more appealing to those interested in history and the unusual.

Regarding Samdrup Jongkhar (Bhutan):
Distance: Approximately 110 km (3-4 hours by car) + border crossing time
Important: This involves crossing the international border into Bhutan.
Requirements: Indian citizens do not require a visa to enter Bhutan, but you'll need a valid passport or Voter ID card. You'll get an entry permit at the border.
Things to consider: The border crossing process can take time. It might be challenging to make this a comfortable one-day trip unless you leave very early and focus on the immediate border area.


A trip to Kaziranga National Park from Guwahati is a must for nature and wildlife enthusiasts. Here's a detailed guide to help you plan your visit:

1. Getting from Guwahati to Kaziranga:

Distance: Approximately 220 km   
Travel time: 4-5 hours by road
Transportation options:
Private taxi/car: The most convenient option, offering flexibility and comfort. You can hire a taxi from Guwahati or pre-book one online.   
Shared taxi: A more economical option, available from Guwahati's ASTC bus stand.
Bus: State-run buses and private buses operate between Guwahati and Kaziranga.   

2. Where to stay in Kaziranga:
Kaziranga offers a range of accommodation options to suit different budgets, from luxury resorts to budget-friendly guesthouses.   
Most accommodations are located near the main entrance gates of the park (Kohora, Bagori, and Agaratoli).
It's advisable to book your accommodation in advance, especially during peak season.

3. Exploring Kaziranga National Park:
Safari options:
Jeep safari: The most popular way to explore the park, offering a closer look at the wildlife. Jeeps can access most parts of the park, including the core areas.   
Elephant safari: A unique experience that allows you to get even closer to the wildlife, especially the rhinos. Elephant safaris are conducted in the early morning.   
Safari zones:
Central Range (Kohora): The most popular range, known for its high concentration of rhinos and other wildlife.   
Western Range (Bagori): Offers excellent opportunities for birdwatching and spotting water buffaloes.
Eastern Range (Agaratoli): Known for its scenic beauty and diverse birdlife.   
Safari timings:
Morning safari: Typically starts around 7:00 AM
Afternoon safari: Typically starts around 2:00 PM
Booking safaris:
You can book safaris online through the Assam Forest Department website or at the park's entrance gates.   
It's advisable to book in advance, especially during peak season.

4. What to see in Kaziranga:
One-horned rhinoceros: Kaziranga is home to the world's largest population of Indian one-horned rhinoceros.
Other wildlife: The park also harbors a variety of other animals, including tigers, elephants, wild water buffaloes, swamp deer, and various bird species.
Birdwatching: Kaziranga is a paradise for birdwatchers, with over 500 species of birds recorded in the park.   

5. Best time to visit Kaziranga:
The park is open from November to April.
The best time for wildlife viewing is during the dry season (November to April) when the vegetation is less dense and the animals congregate around water bodies.   

6. Tips for visiting Kaziranga:
Wear comfortable clothing and shoes: You'll be spending a lot of time outdoors.   
Carry sunscreen, insect repellent, and a hat.   
Bring binoculars for better wildlife viewing.
Respect the wildlife and maintain a safe distance.
Follow the instructions of your guide.
Do not litter in the park.

7. Itinerary suggestions:
One-day trip: If you have limited time, you can take a day trip from Guwahati, which will allow you to do one jeep safari. However, it will be a long and tiring day.
Two-day trip: A more relaxed option that allows you to do both jeep and elephant safaris and explore different ranges of the park.
Three-day trip: The ideal duration for a comprehensive Kaziranga experience, allowing you to explore the park in detail and also visit nearby attractions.

8. Nearby attractions:
Kaziranga Orchid and Biodiversity Park: Showcases a variety of orchids and other flora found in the region.   
Tea gardens: Assam is famous for its tea, and you can visit nearby tea gardens to learn about the tea-making process.   
By following this guide, you can plan a memorable and rewarding trip to Kaziranga National Park from Guwahati.



The history of Guwahati is rich and multifaceted, spanning millennia and encompassing various kingdoms, dynasties, and cultural influences. Here's a glimpse into its fascinating past:   

Ancient Period:

Pragjyotishpura: In ancient times, Guwahati was known as Pragjyotishpura, meaning "City of Eastern Light." It finds mention in ancient Indian epics like the Mahabharata and Ramayana, associating it with legendary figures like King Narakasura and his son Bhagadatta.   
Kamarupa Kingdom: From around the 4th century CE, Guwahati formed a significant part of the Kamarupa kingdom, a powerful kingdom that ruled over much of present-day Assam and surrounding areas.   
Mythological Significance: Guwahati is closely linked to Hindu mythology. The Kamakhya Temple, one of the most revered Shakti Peethas, is located here, further enhancing the city's ancient and sacred status.   
Medieval Period:

Ahom Rule: The Ahom kingdom, which ruled Assam for over 600 years, played a crucial role in shaping Guwahati's history. The Ahoms established their control over the region in the 13th century, and Guwahati became an important strategic and administrative centre.   
Mughal Invasions: Guwahati witnessed several invasions by the Mughal Empire during the 17th century. The Battle of Saraighat in 1671, fought on the Brahmaputra River near Guwahati, is a significant event in Assam's history, where the Ahoms, led by the legendary general Lachit Borphukan, decisively defeated the Mughals.   
Borphukan's Seat: Guwahati served as the headquarters of the Borphukan, the Ahom governor of Lower Assam, until 1824.   
Colonial Period:

British Rule: In 1826, with the Treaty of Yandabo, Assam came under British rule, and Guwahati became the capital of Assam.   
Development and Modernization: During the British period, Guwahati saw significant development in terms of infrastructure, communication, and administration. The city began to take its modern shape, with the establishment of administrative buildings, roads, and educational institutions.   
Shifting of Capital: In 1874, the capital of Assam was shifted to Shillong. However, Guwahati continued to be an important commercial and administrative centre.
Post-Independence Period:

Growth and Expansion: After India's independence in 1947, Guwahati witnessed rapid growth and expansion, becoming the largest city in Northeast India and a major economic and transportation hub.   
Cultural and Educational centre: Guwahati has also emerged as a prominent cultural and educational centre, with the establishment of universities, museums, and cultural institutions.   
Key Historical Landmarks:

Kamakhya Temple: A testament to the city's ancient past and mythological significance.   
Umananda Temple: Located on Peacock Island, this temple reflects the Ahom period's architectural style.
Ancient Ruins and Archaeological Sites: Scattered around Guwahati, these sites offer glimpses into the city's ancient history.
Guwahati's history is a captivating narrative of ancient kingdoms, epic battles, cultural融合, and modern development. It stands as a living testament to the rich heritage of Assam and Northeast India.



Guwahati's geography plays a significant role in its history, culture, and development. Here's a breakdown of its key geographical features:   

Location and Topography:

Brahmaputra River: Guwahati is situated on the banks of the mighty Brahmaputra River, one of Asia's largest rivers. The river flows to the north of the city, shaping its landscape and serving as a vital waterway.   
Hills and Plains: The city is nestled between the Brahmaputra River to the north and the foothills of the Shillong Plateau to the south. This unique location gives Guwahati a varied topography, with a mix of plains, hills, and wetlands.   
Hills Within the City: Several small hills are located within the city limits, such as the Nilachal Hill (where the Kamakhya Temple is located), the Chitrasal Hill (site of the Navagraha Temple), and the Umananda Island (Peacock Island) in the Brahmaputra. These hills add to the city's scenic beauty and provide vantage points for panoramic views.
Bharalu River: The Bharalu River, a tributary of the Brahmaputra, flows through the heart of Guwahati, dividing the city into different parts.   
Geographical Significance:

Strategic Importance: Guwahati's location on the Brahmaputra River has historically given it strategic importance for trade, transportation, and defense.   
Biodiversity Hotspot: The region surrounding Guwahati is part of the Indo-Burma biodiversity hotspot, known for its rich flora and fauna. The presence of wetlands like Deepor Beel further contributes to the area's ecological significance.   
Natural Resources: The region is rich in natural resources, including forests, minerals, and fertile land, which have played a role in the city's economic development.
Climate:

Humid Subtropical Climate: Guwahati experiences a humid subtropical climate with hot and humid summers, mild winters, and a monsoon season.   
Monsoon Season: The monsoon season (June to September) brings heavy rainfall, which can sometimes lead to flooding in low-lying areas.   
Environmental Considerations:

Urbanization and Development: Rapid urbanization and development have led to environmental challenges in Guwahati, such as deforestation, pollution, and encroachment on wetlands.   
Conservation Efforts: Efforts are being made to address these challenges through initiatives like the Guwahati Smart City project, which focuses on sustainable development and environmental conservation.
Impact on City Life:

Transportation: The Brahmaputra River has historically been a major transportation route, and even today, ferries and river cruises play a role in the city's transportation system.
Culture and Lifestyle: The river and the surrounding natural environment have influenced the culture and lifestyle of the people of Guwahati.
Tourism: The scenic beauty of the city, with its hills, river, and natural surroundings, attracts tourists from all over the world.   
In conclusion, Guwahati's geography, with its unique combination of river, hills, and plains, has significantly shaped its history, culture, and development. The city's location within a biodiversity hotspot also highlights the importance of environmental conservation in the region.



Guwahati has emerged as a major educational hub in Northeast India, boasting a diverse range of institutions catering to various fields of study. Here's a detailed overview of the education landscape in Guwahati:   

Primary and Secondary Education:

Guwahati has a well-established network of primary and secondary schools, both public and private.   
Many schools follow the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) curriculum, while others follow the state board (SEBA).
Notable schools include:
Don Bosco School: A renowned institution with a long history.   
Delhi Public School (DPS) Guwahati: A popular choice for its modern facilities and academic excellence.
Sanskriti The Gurukul: Known for its focus on holistic education.
Little Flower School: A well-established school with a strong academic record.   
Higher Education:

Guwahati offers a wide range of options for higher education, with universities and colleges specializing in various disciplines:   

Universities:

Gauhati University: The oldest university in Northeast India, offering a wide range of undergraduate, postgraduate, and doctoral programs in arts, science, commerce, law, and other fields.   
Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati (IIT Guwahati): A prestigious engineering and technology institute, known for its academic excellence and research.   
Assam Don Bosco University: A private university offering programs in engineering, management, social sciences, and other disciplines.   
Cotton University: A state university with a focus on humanities, science, and social sciences.   
Assam Science and Technology University: A state university dedicated to promoting science and technology education.   
National Law University and Judicial Academy, Assam (NLUJAA): A premier law school offering undergraduate and postgraduate programs in law.   
Colleges:

Cotton College State University: A historic institution offering undergraduate and postgraduate programs in arts, science, and commerce.
B. Borooah College: A well-known college offering undergraduate programs in arts, science, and commerce.   
Gauhati Commerce College: A leading commerce college in the region.   
Handique Girls' College: A renowned women's college offering undergraduate programs in arts and science.   
Professional and Technical Education:

Guwahati also has several institutions offering professional and technical education:
Assam Engineering College: The oldest engineering college in Assam.
Assam Engineering Institute: Offers diploma courses in various engineering disciplines.
Regional Institute of Pharmaceutical Science and Technology: Offers courses in pharmacy.   
Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs): Provide vocational training in various trades.   
  
Other Educational Institutions:

Indian Institute of Information Technology Guwahati (IIIT Guwahati): Focuses on information technology education and research.
Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Guwahati Campus: Offers programs in social work and related fields.   
Regional Research Laboratory, Jorhat (CSIR-RRL): A research institute conducting research in various scientific disciplines.
Challenges and Developments:

While Guwahati has made significant strides in education, challenges remain, such as improving the quality of education in some schools and colleges, increasing access to education in rural areas, and providing adequate resources for research and development.
Efforts are being made to address these challenges through government initiatives, private sector involvement, and collaborations with national and international institutions.   
Guwahati's educational landscape is constantly evolving, with new institutions and programs being introduced to meet the growing demands of the region. The city plays a vital role in providing quality education and fostering intellectual growth in Northeast India.

Engineering Education in Guwahati:

Guwahati has a robust engineering education system, with institutions offering a wide range of specializations and programs:   

Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati (IIT Guwahati): This is the crown jewel of engineering education in the region. As one of the premier IITs in India, it offers undergraduate, postgraduate, and doctoral programs in various engineering disciplines, including:
Computer Science and Engineering   
Mechanical Engineering   
Civil Engineering   
Electronics and Electrical Engineering   
Chemical Engineering   
Biotechnology   
And many more
IIT Guwahati is known for its rigorous curriculum, world-class faculty, and state-of-the-art research facilities. It consistently ranks among the top engineering institutes in India.  

Assam Engineering College: The oldest engineering college in Assam, it has a long history of producing quality engineers. It offers undergraduate programs in:   
Civil Engineering
Mechanical Engineering   
Electrical Engineering
Chemical Engineering   
Computer Science and Engineering
Instrumentation Engineering
Industrial and Production Engineering

Indian Institute of Information Technology Guwahati (IIIT Guwahati): This institute focuses specifically on information technology and related fields, offering undergraduate and postgraduate programs in:
Computer Science and Engineering
Electronics and Communication Engineering
Information Technology

Assam Don Bosco University: This private university also has a strong engineering department, offering undergraduate programs in:   
Civil Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Electrical and Electronics Engineering
Computer Science and Engineering  

Assam Science and Technology University: This state university affiliates many engineering colleges in Assam, including some in Guwahati, ensuring standardization and quality in engineering education across the state.   

Medical Education in Guwahati:

Guwahati is also a major centre for medical education and healthcare in Northeast India:   

Gauhati Medical College and Hospital (GMCH): This is one of the oldest and most prestigious medical colleges in the region. It offers undergraduate (MBBS) and postgraduate (MD/MS) programs in various medical specialties. GMCH is also a major teaching hospital, providing clinical training to medical students and serving as a referral centre for patients from across Northeast India.     

Regional Institute of Paramedical and Nursing Sciences: This institute offers courses in various paramedical and nursing disciplines, contributing to the healthcare workforce in the region.

Private Medical Colleges and Hospitals: In recent years, several private medical colleges and hospitals have been established in Guwahati, increasing the availability of medical education and healthcare services.

Key Features of Engineering and Medical Education in Guwahati:
Strong Emphasis on Research: Institutions like IIT Guwahati and GMCH have a strong focus on research, contributing to advancements in science and technology.   
Industry Collaboration: Many institutions have collaborations with industries, providing students with opportunities for internships and practical training.
State-of-the-art Facilities: Modern laboratories, libraries, and other facilities are available in many institutions to support quality education and research.
Focus on Skill Development: There is increasing emphasis on skill development and practical training to ensure that graduates are well-prepared for the job market.
Guwahati continues to be a crucial hub for both engineering and medical education in Northeast India, attracting students from across the region and contributing to the development of skilled professionals in these vital fields.


While Guwahati itself doesn't have sprawling tea gardens within the city limits, it plays a vital role in the tea industry of Assam, which is renowned globally for its tea production. Here's how Guwahati is connected to the tea industry:

1. Trade and Commerce Hub:
Auction centre: Guwahati is a major tea auction centre in India. Tea produced in various tea gardens across Assam is brought to Guwahati for auctioning, where buyers from across the country and the world participate. This makes Guwahati a crucial trading hub for the tea industry.   
Headquarters and Offices: Many tea companies, both large and small, have their headquarters or regional offices in Guwahati. These offices handle various aspects of the tea business, including production, marketing, and export.   
Banking and Finance: Guwahati's financial institutions play a key role in providing financial services to the tea industry, including loans, insurance, and other financial products.

2. Transportation and Logistics:
Connectivity: Guwahati's strategic location and excellent connectivity via road, rail, and air make it a crucial logistics hub for the tea industry. Tea is transported from tea gardens to Guwahati for processing, packaging, and distribution to various markets.
Packaging and Processing: While tea gardens often have their own processing facilities, some tea processing and packaging units are also located in and around Guwahati.   

3. Supporting Industries:
Fertilizers and Pesticides: Guwahati serves as a distribution centre for fertilizers, pesticides, and other inputs required by the tea industry.   
Machinery and Equipment: Companies supplying machinery and equipment to tea gardens often have a presence in Guwahati.

4. Research and Development:
Tea Research Association (TRA): While the main research centre is in Tocklai (near Jorhat), Guwahati benefits from the research and development activities carried out by TRA, which focuses on improving tea cultivation, processing, and quality.

5. Tourism and Promotion:
Tea Tourism: While the tea gardens are located outside Guwahati, the city serves as a gateway for tourists interested in exploring the tea gardens of Assam. Tour operators in Guwahati organize tea tourism packages that include visits to tea gardens and factories.
Tea Promotion: Guwahati also plays a role in promoting Assam tea through various events, exhibitions, and marketing initiatives.   

Visiting Tea Gardens from Guwahati:
While you won't find tea gardens within Guwahati city, you can easily plan day trips or longer excursions to nearby tea gardens. Some popular tea garden destinations accessible from Guwahati include:
Sonapur: Located about an hour's drive from Guwahati, this area has several tea gardens that offer scenic beauty and opportunities to learn about tea production.
Jorhat: Known as the "Tea City of Assam," Jorhat is a few hours' drive from Guwahati and is surrounded by numerous tea gardens.   
In summary, although Guwahati is primarily an urban centre, it is deeply intertwined with the tea industry of Assam. It serves as a vital hub for trade, commerce, transportation, and other supporting activities that contribute to the success of this important industry.


Guwahati offers a diverse range of activities and entertainment options, catering to various interests. Here's a breakdown of what you can do in the city:

Cultural Experiences:

Srimanta Sankardev Kalakshetra: This cultural complex is a must-visit for those interested in Assamese art, culture, and heritage. It hosts various cultural events, including traditional dance performances, music concerts, and theater shows.
Assam State Museum: Explore the rich history and culture of Assam through its extensive collection of artifacts and exhibits.
Visiting Temples: Guwahati is home to several ancient temples, including the Kamakhya Temple, Umananda Temple, and Navagraha Temple. These temples are not only places of worship but also architectural and historical landmarks.
Nature and Wildlife:

Assam State Zoo cum Botanical Garden: This zoo is home to a diverse collection of animals, including the one-horned rhinoceros, tigers, and various bird species. The botanical garden within the complex offers a peaceful escape into nature.
Deepor Beel: This wetland on the outskirts of Guwahati is a haven for birdwatchers and nature enthusiasts. It's home to a variety of migratory birds and offers opportunities for boating and wildlife spotting.
Brahmaputra River Cruise: Enjoy a scenic cruise on the mighty Brahmaputra River, offering breathtaking views of the city skyline and the surrounding landscapes. You can choose from various cruise options, including sunset cruises and dinner cruises.
Day trips to nearby wildlife sanctuaries: Kaziranga National Park and Pobitora Wildlife Sanctuary are easily accessible from Guwahati and offer excellent opportunities for wildlife viewing.
Recreation and Leisure:

Dighalipukhuri: This historic tank in the heart of the city offers boating facilities and a pleasant environment for relaxation.
Nehru Park: A well-maintained park with lush greenery, children's play areas, and a musical fountain, making it a great place for a family outing.
Shopping: Fancy Bazaar and Pan Bazaar are popular shopping destinations where you can find a variety of goods, from traditional Assamese handicrafts to modern apparel.
Dining: Guwahati offers a diverse culinary scene, with restaurants serving Assamese, Indian, and international cuisine.
Entertainment and Nightlife:

Movie theaters: Guwahati has several modern movie theaters where you can catch the latest Bollywood and Hollywood releases.
Restaurants and cafes: The city has a growing number of restaurants and cafes offering a variety of cuisines and ambiances.
Bars and pubs: There are several bars and pubs in Guwahati where you can enjoy drinks and music.
Events and festivals: Guwahati hosts various cultural events and festivals throughout the year, offering opportunities to experience the local culture and traditions.
Other Activities:

Guwahati Planetarium: This planetarium offers fascinating shows about the universe and astronomy.
Regional Science Centre: This science centre offers interactive exhibits and activities for all ages.
Visiting nearby towns and villages: You can take day trips to nearby towns and villages to experience rural Assamese life and culture.
Tips for Enjoying Activities and Entertainment in Guwahati:

Check for events and festivals: Before your visit, check for any local events or festivals that might be taking place.
Plan your itinerary: Guwahati has a lot to offer, so it's best to plan your itinerary in advance to make the most of your time.
Consider transportation: Local transportation options include taxis, auto-rickshaws, city buses, and app-based cabs.
Be aware of local customs: And respect the local culture and traditions.
By exploring these diverse activities and entertainment options, you can have a memorable and enjoyable experience in Guwahati.



Luxury:

Vivanta Guwahati: This hotel offers a sophisticated and luxurious experience with elegant rooms, fine dining options, a rooftop pool with stunning views, and impeccable service. Expect a high level of comfort and amenities.
Novotel Guwahati GS Road: A well-known international chain hotel, Novotel provides modern and comfortable accommodations with multiple dining options, a rooftop pool, a spa, and a fitness centre. It's a reliable choice for a luxurious stay.
Radisson Blu Hotel Guwahati: Another international chain hotel, Radisson Blu offers stylish rooms and suites, a variety of dining options, a spa, and a swimming pool. It's known for its high standards of service and hospitality.
Mid-Range:

The Ornate: This hotel provides comfortable and well-appointed rooms with modern amenities. It often features a restaurant, a bar, and other facilities like Wi-Fi and parking. It's a good option for those seeking a balance between comfort and affordability.
The Hotel Palacio: This hotel typically offers straightforward yet comfortable rooms, often with amenities like Wi-Fi and in-room dining. It might have a restaurant or bar on-site. It's a solid choice for a comfortable stay without breaking the bank.
Pragati Manor: This hotel generally offers comfortable rooms with essential amenities, and may include a restaurant and other facilities. It's a good option for travelers looking for a decent stay at a reasonable price.
Budget-Friendly:

Hotel Lilawati Grand: This hotel usually offers basic but clean and comfortable rooms with essential amenities. It might have a restaurant or offer room service. It's a suitable choice for budget-conscious travelers looking for a simple and affordable stay.
Ginger Guwahati: This is a part of a well-known budget hotel chain, offering standardized and clean rooms with essential amenities. It's a good option for travelers looking for a no-frills, value-for-money stay.
OYO Rooms: OYO Rooms offers a wide range of budget-friendly accommodations in Guwahati, from basic guesthouses to more comfortable hotels. It's a good option for travelers looking for affordable options with basic amenities.



Guwahati offers a diverse culinary scene, with options ranging from traditional Assamese cuisine to international flavors. Here's a breakdown of the restaurant scene and culinary options in Guwahati:

Traditional Assamese Cuisine:
Khar: This is a must-try for anyone visiting Assam. It's a unique dish made with raw papaya, pulses, and meat or fish, known for its alkaline taste.
Masor Tenga: A tangy fish curry cooked with tomatoes and outenga (elephant apple), offering a distinct sour flavor.
Xaak: A variety of leafy greens cooked with different spices, often served as a side dish.
Pitha: Traditional rice cakes, available in various forms like Til Pitha (sesame cakes) and Ghila Pitha (fried rice cakes).
Restaurants specializing in Assamese cuisine:
Maihang: Known for its authentic Assamese thali.
Paradise Restaurant: A popular choice for traditional Assamese dishes.
Khorikaa: Offers a more modern take on Assamese cuisine.

Other Indian Cuisines:
North Indian: Many restaurants in Guwahati offer popular North Indian dishes like butter chicken, naan, biryani, and kebabs.
South Indian: You can find restaurants serving South Indian specialties like dosa, idli, and vada.
Restaurants offering other Indian cuisines:
Barbeque Nation: A popular chain restaurant offering a wide variety of grilled meats and vegetables.
Absolute Barbecues: Another popular barbeque restaurant with a wide selection of dishes.
Sagar Ratna: A well-known chain restaurant serving authentic South Indian cuisine.

International Cuisines:
Chinese: Several restaurants in Guwahati offer Chinese dishes like noodles, fried rice, and Manchurian.
Continental: You can find restaurants serving continental dishes like pasta, steaks, and salads.
Other international cuisines: Some restaurants also offer other international cuisines like Thai, Italian, and Mexican.

Cafes and Bakeries:
Guwahati has a growing cafe culture, with many cafes offering coffee, tea, snacks, and light meals.
You can also find several bakeries offering cakes, pastries, and other baked goods.

Street Food:
Guwahati has a vibrant street food scene, with vendors selling a variety of snacks and local delicacies.
Popular street food items include momos, chow mein, and various types of chaat.

Dining Experiences:
Fine Dining: Some upscale restaurants in Guwahati offer fine dining experiences with elegant ambiance and gourmet cuisine.
Casual Dining: Many restaurants offer a more casual dining experience with a relaxed atmosphere and affordable prices.
Dining with a View: Some restaurants and cafes offer stunning views of the Brahmaputra River or the surrounding hills.

Key Areas for Dining:
GS Road: This is a major commercial area with many restaurants and cafes.
Paltan Bazaar: This area is known for its budget-friendly eateries and street food.
Uzan Bazaar: This area has a mix of restaurants, cafes, and street food vendors.

Tips for Dining in Guwahati:
Try local Assamese cuisine: It's a unique culinary experience that you shouldn't miss.
Be adventurous and try new things: Guwahati offers a diverse culinary scene, so don't be afraid to try different cuisines and dishes.
Check for local recommendations: Ask locals for their recommendations on restaurants and cafes.


Guwahati, being the gateway to Northeast India, is a melting pot of cultures and traditions, reflected in its vibrant festivals. Here are some of the major festivals celebrated in Guwahati:

1. Bihu:
Bihu is the most important festival of Assam, celebrated thrice a year, marking significant phases in the agricultural calendar.
Rongali Bihu (Bohag Bihu): Celebrated in April, it marks the Assamese New Year and the onset of spring. It's a time of joy, with traditional songs, dances (Bihu Naach), and feasting.
Kongali Bihu (Kati Bihu): Celebrated in October, it's a more somber festival, marking the end of the harvest season.
Bhogali Bihu (Magh Bihu): Celebrated in January, it's a harvest festival with bonfires, feasting, and traditional games.

2. Ambubachi Mela:
This is a major religious festival held annually at the Kamakhya Temple in June.
It celebrates the menstruation of Goddess Kamakhya, and the temple remains closed for three days during this period.
Devotees from all over India and the world visit Guwahati during this time.

3. Durga Puja:
This is a widely celebrated festival in Guwahati, dedicated to Goddess Durga.
It's celebrated in September/October, with elaborate pandals (temporary structures) erected throughout the city, showcasing artistic displays and idols of the goddess.

4. Diwali:
The festival of lights is celebrated with great enthusiasm in Guwahati in October/November.
People decorate their homes with lights and diyas (oil lamps), exchange gifts, and burst firecrackers.

5. Other Festivals and Events:
Brahmaputra River Festival: This festival celebrates the mighty Brahmaputra River with various cultural events, water sports, and exhibitions.
Guwahati International Film Festival: This annual film festival showcases films from around the world.
Guwahati Book Fair: A popular event for book lovers, featuring book launches, author interactions, and cultural programs.
Importance of Festivals in Guwahati:

Cultural expression: Festivals play a vital role in preserving and promoting the rich cultural heritage of Assam.
Social bonding: They bring people together, fostering a sense of community and unity.
Economic activity: Festivals generate significant economic activity, with increased tourism and trade.
By experiencing these vibrant festivals, visitors can get a deeper understanding of the culture and traditions of Guwahati and Assam.



Guwahati is the economic hub of Northeast India, playing a crucial role in the region's trade, commerce, and industry. Here's an overview of the economy and job market in Guwahati:   

Key Sectors of the Economy:

Trade and Commerce: Guwahati is a major trading centre for the entire Northeast region. Its strategic location on the Brahmaputra River and its well-developed transportation network facilitate trade with other parts of India and neighboring countries.   
Transportation and Logistics: Guwahati serves as a major transportation hub for the Northeast, with a well-connected airport, railway station, and road network. This sector provides employment in transportation, warehousing, and logistics services.   
Tea Industry: Guwahati is a crucial centre for the tea industry in Assam, with tea auction centres, company offices, and supporting industries located in the city.   
Tourism: Guwahati is the gateway to Northeast India, attracting tourists who visit the region's national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, and cultural sites. The tourism sector provides employment in hotels, restaurants, transportation, and tour operations.   
Petrochemicals: The presence of oil refineries and petrochemical industries in the region contributes to Guwahati's economy.
Manufacturing: Guwahati has some manufacturing activity, including food processing, textiles, and handicrafts.   
Real Estate and Construction: The city's rapid urbanization has led to growth in the real estate and construction sectors.   
Services Sector: The services sector is growing in Guwahati, with opportunities in IT, healthcare, education, and finance.
Job Market:

Government Jobs: Government jobs in various departments and agencies are a significant source of employment in Guwahati.   
Private Sector Jobs: The private sector offers job opportunities in various industries, including:
Banking and Finance: Banks, financial institutions, and insurance companies offer jobs in finance, accounting, and customer service.   
IT and ITES: The IT sector is growing in Guwahati, with opportunities for software developers, IT professionals, and BPO employees.   
Healthcare: Hospitals, clinics, and healthcare institutions offer jobs for doctors, nurses, and other healthcare professionals.   
Hospitality and Tourism: Hotels, restaurants, and tour operators offer jobs in hospitality, tourism, and customer service.   
Retail and Sales: Retail stores, shopping malls, and businesses offer jobs in sales, marketing, and customer service.   
Education: Schools, colleges, and universities offer jobs for teachers, professors, and administrative staff.   
Challenges and Opportunities:

Unemployment and Underemployment: While Guwahati offers various job opportunities, unemployment and underemployment are still challenges, particularly among young people.
Skill Gap: There is a need to bridge the skill gap between the available workforce and the requirements of the industry.
Infrastructure Development: Continued investment in infrastructure development is essential for sustained economic growth and job creation.
Promoting Entrepreneurship: Encouraging entrepreneurship and supporting small businesses can create new job opportunities and boost the local economy.
Recent Developments:

Focus on economic growth: The Assam government has been focusing on promoting economic growth and creating employment opportunities in the state, including in Guwahati.   
Increase in financial transactions: Recent reports indicate a significant increase in financial transactions in Assam, suggesting a strengthening economy.   
Rise in labor force participation: There has been an increase in the labor force participation rate in Assam, indicating more people are entering the workforce.   
Guwahati's economy is evolving, with growth in various sectors and efforts being made to address challenges and create new opportunities. The city continues to be a vital economic centre for Northeast India, offering a range of job prospects in diverse fields.



The Guwahati Smart City project is an urban renewal and development program aimed at transforming Guwahati into a more livable, sustainable, and economically vibrant city. It's part of the larger Smart Cities Mission launched by the Government of India in 2015.   

Key Objectives of Guwahati Smart City:
Improving Quality of Life: Enhancing the quality of life for citizens through better infrastructure, services, and amenities.   
Sustainable Development: Promoting sustainable urban development practices that are environmentally friendly and resource-efficient.
Economic Growth: Driving economic growth and creating employment opportunities through improved infrastructure and business-friendly policies.   
Citizen Engagement: Encouraging citizen participation in the planning and implementation of smart city projects.
Leveraging Technology: Using technology to improve urban services and governance.

Key Components and Projects:

The Guwahati Smart City project focuses on both Area Based Development (ABD) and Pan-City solutions:   
  Area Based Development (ABD): This involves focused development in specific areas of the city, with improvements in infrastructure, public spaces, and amenities. In Guwahati, the ABD area focuses on the central part of the city, including areas around the Brahmaputra Riverfront. Key projects include:   

Brahmaputra Riverfront Development: This project aims to revitalize the riverfront area with improved public spaces, walkways, parks, and recreational facilities.   
Redevelopment of Old Market Areas: This involves upgrading existing market areas with improved infrastructure, sanitation, and traffic management.
Urban Renewal and Retrofitting: This includes improving existing infrastructure and buildings in the ABD area to make them more efficient and sustainable.
  Pan-City Solutions: These are city-wide projects that use technology to improve urban services and address city-wide challenges. Key projects include:   

Integrated Traffic Management System: This involves using technology to improve traffic flow, reduce congestion, and enhance road safety.   
Solid Waste Management: This project aims to improve waste collection, processing, and disposal using modern technology.   
Smart Water Management: This involves using technology to monitor and manage water supply and distribution more efficiently.
E-Governance: This focuses on providing online government services to citizens, making them more accessible and efficient.
Implementation and Governance:

Guwahati Smart City Limited (GSCL): This is a special purpose vehicle (SPV) responsible for planning, implementing, and managing the Guwahati Smart City project.   
Funding: The project is funded by the central and state governments, as well as through private sector investments.
Overall Vision:

The Guwahati Smart City project aims to transform Guwahati into a modern, sustainable, and livable city that offers a high quality of life for its citizens. It focuses on improving infrastructure, services, and amenities while also promoting economic growth and environmental sustainability.   

While the project is still ongoing, several initiatives have already been implemented, and more are in the pipeline. It's a significant undertaking that aims to shape the future of Guwahati as a leading city in Northeast India.



Guwahati, like many rapidly developing cities, faces significant challenges related to pollution and the impacts of climate change. Here's a summary of the situation:   

Pollution in Guwahati:

Air Pollution: This is a major concern. Recent reports, including the 2023 World Air Quality Report by IQAir, have ranked Guwahati among the most polluted cities in the world. High levels of PM2.5 (fine particulate matter) are a particular problem, exceeding World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines by a significant margin.
Sources of Air Pollution:
Vehicular emissions: The increasing number of vehicles on the road contributes significantly to air pollution.   
Construction activities: Construction dust and emissions from construction equipment are also major sources.   
Industrial emissions: Industries in and around Guwahati contribute to air pollution.   
Burning of fossil fuels: The use of fossil fuels for power generation and other purposes also contributes to air pollution.   
Biomass burning: Burning of agricultural waste and other biomass also adds to the problem, especially during certain times of the year.
  
Water Pollution: The Brahmaputra River, which flows through Guwahati, faces pollution from various sources, including industrial effluents, sewage, and solid waste. This pollution affects aquatic life and poses risks to human health.   
Noise Pollution: Increasing traffic and construction activities contribute to noise pollution in the city.   
Climate in Guwahati:

Humid Subtropical Climate: Guwahati experiences a humid subtropical climate with hot and humid summers, mild winters, and a monsoon season.   
Impacts of Climate Change: Guwahati is facing the impacts of climate change, including:
Changes in rainfall patterns: More erratic rainfall patterns, with increased intensity of rainfall events, leading to urban flooding.   
Rising temperatures: Increasing average temperatures, leading to heat waves and other heat-related health issues.   
Impacts on biodiversity: Changes in climate can affect the local ecosystems and biodiversity in the region.
Efforts to Address Pollution and Climate Change:

Government Initiatives: The government has implemented various initiatives to address pollution and climate change in Guwahati, including:
Promoting public transportation: Efforts are being made to improve public transportation and encourage the use of cleaner fuels.   
Implementing stricter environmental regulations: Regulations are being enforced to control industrial emissions and construction activities.
Promoting renewable energy: Initiatives are being taken to promote the use of renewable energy sources.   
Urban planning and development: Sustainable urban planning practices are being adopted to reduce the environmental impact of development.
Guwahati Smart City project: This project includes components focused on improving environmental sustainability and addressing urban challenges.
Citizen Initiatives: Various citizen groups and NGOs are also working to raise awareness about environmental issues and promote sustainable practices.   
Challenges:

Rapid urbanization: The rapid growth of the city puts pressure on its infrastructure and resources, exacerbating pollution and environmental challenges.   
Enforcement of regulations: Effective enforcement of environmental regulations is crucial to control pollution.
Public awareness and participation: Raising public awareness and encouraging citizen participation in environmental conservation efforts are essential.
Addressing pollution and climate change in Guwahati requires concerted efforts from the government, businesses, and citizens. By implementing sustainable practices and promoting environmental awareness, Guwahati can work towards a cleaner and more sustainable future.



Here’s a list of some prominent localities in Guwahati, along with short descriptions of each:

1. Pan Bazaar
A bustling commercial hub known for its bookstores, educational institutions, and proximity to the Brahmaputra River. It also houses government offices and cultural landmarks like Cotton University.

2. Paltan Bazaar
The city's transportation nucleus, known for its railway station, bus terminals, and budget hotels. It's a busy area with markets and eateries.

3. Ganeshguri
A vibrant locality near the Assam Secretariat. Known for its shopping complexes, street food, and the Ganesh Temple that gives the area its name.

4. Fancy Bazaar
A shopper’s paradise, famous for wholesale and retail markets. You’ll find textiles, electronics, and household items at reasonable prices here.

5. Dispur
The capital of Assam, housing the state’s administrative headquarters. It's a residential and institutional area with a relatively serene environment.

6. Uzan Bazaar
One of the oldest localities in Guwahati, located by the Brahmaputra River. Known for its scenic views, heritage buildings, and cultural vibe.

7. Chandmari
A well-connected residential and commercial area, home to many educational institutions, cafes, and cultural centers.

8. Beltola
A rapidly developing residential locality with a mix of modern apartments and traditional markets. Known for its Beltola Weekly Market, one of the oldest in the region.

9. Kahilipara
A peaceful residential area that also houses several government offices and the Doordarshan Kendra Guwahati.

10. GS Road (Guwahati-Shillong Road)
The commercial lifeline of Guwahati, lined with malls, offices, restaurants, and upscale residential complexes.

11. Maligaon
Known for the headquarters of the Northeast Frontier Railway and its proximity to the Kamakhya Temple.

12. Zoo Road
Named after the Assam State Zoo and Botanical Garden located here. It is a posh locality with cafes, shops, and residential apartments.

13. Bhangagarh
A healthcare hub with many hospitals and clinics. It also has a mix of commercial establishments and residential spaces.

14. Khanapara
Located on the outskirts, it serves as a gateway to Meghalaya. Known for its veterinary college, cattle market, and a growing number of IT offices.

15. North Guwahati
Across the Brahmaputra River, this area has historical significance, ancient temples, and educational institutions like IIT Guwahati.

16. Six Mile
A fast-developing area with shopping centers, residential complexes, and good connectivity to other parts of the city.

17. Basistha
Named after the famous Basistha Temple, this area has a mix of urban and semi-rural charm.

18. Lokhra
A growing locality with residential and commercial spaces, as well as educational institutions.

19. Azara
Situated near the airport, Azara is a quiet suburb with scenic views and several educational institutions.

20. Narengi
A residential locality known for its peaceful environment and proximity to the oil refinery and the army cantonment.